
=head1 INTRODUCTION

AFS::Command -- An OO wrapper API for the AFS command line utilities (vos, bos, pts, fs)

=head1 SUMMARY

This suite of perl modules implements an API for the command line
utilities for managing and using the AFS distributed file system.

For example, AFS volumes are managed using the command line utility
'vos', for which there is currently no programmatic API, in any
language.  This API is a pure perl wrapper around the command line
utility, that implements an OO API that allows for the easy
development of systems management applications for AFS.

AFS is available as both an Open Source product
(http://www.openafs.org), as well as a commercial version from IBM
(http://www.ibm.com/software/stormgmt/afs/).  This code is primarily
developed and testing using OpenAFS, however.

=head1 PREREQUISITES

This module requires perl5.10 or later, as well as an installed AFS
infrastructure to work with.  The code is pure perl, with no compiled
components, do it should work on most variants of UNIX.

=head1 INSTALLATION

This module builds like almost everything else on CPAN:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

Before running 'make test', edit the CONFIG file and follow the
instructions in the comments.  Minimally, you have to specify the AFS
cell name and at least one AFS file server and one AFS database server
against which to run the tests, as well as a pathname in AFS where we
can create mount points.

The test suite will require AFS super-user privileges, so you must
either be a member of the system:administrators protection group,
and/or a member of the super users list on the servers.  If you don't
know what that means, you shouldn't be testing this module, so consult
your AFS administrators.

See the CONFIG file for more details.  Its pretty verbosely
documented.

Any failure in the test suite is a cause for concern.  For more
verbose output, run:

  make test TEST_VERBOSE=1

If you can't determine the source of the problem(s), send the verbose
test output, along with the output from "perl -V", as well as the
versions of AFS in use at your site, to the author, and I'll do my
best to figure out why things are breaking, and if you're lucky,
actually fix it.

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

Docs for these modules are split across several files, and will be
installed as man pages.

  man AFS::Command

will provide the general overview of the API, its basic design.  The
details of the API calls, their arguments, and return values, are
found in the following documents:

  man AFS::Command::Base
  man AFS::Command::VOS
  man AFS::Command::BOS
  man AFS::Command::PTS
  man AFS::Command::FS
  man AFS::Object

=head1 AUTHOR

This code is a product of the demented mind of:

    Phillip Moore <w.phillip.moore@gmail.com>

Feedback, patches, recommendations, adulations, and even flames are
all welcome.   Feed my ego (or try to shoot it down :-), please...

=head1 Migrating from 1.x to 2.x

Version 2 of the AFS::Command API preserves the majority of the
version 1 API, however a number of strategic and incompatible changes
have been made.

=head2 Error handling using exceptions

Version 1 would very rarely ever call die/croak, and the developer was
required to explicitly error check every call and raise exceptions
themselves.  Version 2 raies exceptions by default.

In version 1, you were required to do something like this:

    $vos->release( ... ) or die(
        qq{Unable to vos release something\n},
        $vos->errors,
    );

With version 2, a failed $vos->release will result in an exception, so
all you to do is:

    $vos->release( ... );

If you need to handle the exception, then we recommend using
Try::Tiny, for example:

    try {
        $vos->release( ... );
    } catch {
        my @errors = @_;
        # handle the error...
    };

=head2 Improved error handling for pts commands

It's 2010, and pts B<still> has bogus exit codes.  Unlike all the
other AFS command line utilities, pts exits with a successful return
code for most operations.  This behavior also depends on the specific
pts command.  For example, listowned is broken:

    [root@rpcore ~]# pts listowned nosuch
    pts: User or group doesn't exist so couldn't look up id for nosuch
    [root@rpcore ~]# echo $?
    0

But, examine is not:

    [root@rpcore ~]# pts examine nosuch
    pts: User or group doesn't exist so couldn't look up id for nosuch
    [root@rpcore ~]# echo $?
    1

Even if pts is fixed, this API has to be flexible enough to work with
older pts commands (we are B<NOT> going to require users of
AFS::Command to upgrade to the latest OpenAFS release just to use this
code).

The authors have chosen to optimize AFS::Command for robustness over
performance, and some of the pts commands no longer accept a list of
names, in order to make the parsing logic manageable.  This affects
the use of the following pts commands:

    listowned

The documentation has been updated to make a note of this, but if you
have code that does something like this:

    my $result = $pts->listowned( nameorid => \@names );

you will need to change that code to loop over the list and query them
individually.

=cut    
